Ryan Rabuco
Chapter 4 Part 1 + 2 Personal Notes:

For the first half of Chapter 4 of DOET, "Knowing What To Do", it had a lot of new ideas that came to mind when considering the features of design. My main takeaway from this chapter is that impacts of design are not only shown in the presence of features, but also within the absence and constraints of them. These are categorized among physical constraints, cultural constraints, semantic constraints, and logical constraints. Don Norman best describes this as "Constraints are powerful clues, limiting the set of possible actions. The thoughtful use of constraints in design lets people readily determine the proper course of action, even in a novel situation". An example of these constraints are found on page 130, describing the problem with doors, and later on page 138 on the problem with switches. In the case of doors, Norman describes them as poor designs despite their simple concept. This is considered arguably both a semantic and physical constraint, as the physical lack of affordances results in lack of options for actions for the user. In the case of switches, there were no clear indication of which switch configures to which control, which is also a lack of affordances, if not logical constraints. 

For the second half of Chapter 4 of DOET, I was fascinated in the way it expanded on the constraints in the way they are utilized. Not only to deprive the user from going in an unwanted flow, but encouraging a specific desired behavior was what I liked to recognize in design from now on. The two being on page 142-143 with interlocks and lock-ins. At first read I honesly related this to how we code in javascript. setting the baselines before going to the main functions is kind of the same way we set interlocks; making sure our code runs as we desire and not do anything else. Basically putting the invisible barriers as constraints themselves(lockouts). As a whole with applying these constraints and intended forced behaviors, it leads up to how Don Norman dicusses the faucet. Simple design is very key, without needlessly overwhelming the user with the constraints and affordances too obviously. Having it subtle and often invisible, yet impacting them in a way is the best effective method for design. This also allows users to easily build a relationship with the semantic constraints, where they only need to learn it once to do it consistently.

Reflecting on this chapter as a whole, it definitely weighed into the unseen affordances and signifiers of design. This goes for constraints as well and the intentions that are carried. Sometimes these constraints are helpful in guiding users to avoid unwarranted actions that are not meant to be executed. But to bolster the effectiveness, focusing on main principles such as visibility and feedback are important. When feedback are relayed to the use of everyday items, it helps queue the user in understanding what has occurred. This also works for visual components such as light and motion, which will be received as feedback as a feature within a design. This is also mainly for the case of having affordances, which gives context to a feature to begin with. An example being a computer. The outside of case has minimal components, which are physical constraints that helps the user from being overwhelmed. A single power button being a visual affordance tells the user to push it in order to turn on. The intricate processes start, but to simplify the information of "the pc is now on", lights within the glass case of the computer shine, and the fan starts spinning. These are more visual feedback that helps the user. But what about pc cases without see through glass? Often times, the boot up of a pc completes with a gentle and smooth beep sound, which helps as an auditory feedback in place of visual. Using sound for visibility is another key example in good design.
