Ryan Rabuco Chapter 5 Part 1 Notes:

Chapter 5 of DOET primarily made me reflect on the constraints from chapter 4 and the seven stages of action from chapter 2. This is due to the sections reflecting human error and design error. One being the way we reflect on what leads to error, which in this case being root cause analysis. This was discussed on page 164, where the goal is to investigate the cause or accident until it is found. Another prominent subject is the Five Whys. Basically it refers to continue to question all things until there are no more answers to realize, even after five. This reminds me of how user interviews are conducted, where you want as detailed as a question can be asked without making overwhelming or too complex to gather data on. Follow up questions to a question is similar in this aspect. The chapter rounds out with slips and mistakes, primarily between the slips being action-based(incorrect performance of an action) and memory-lapse(not performed). For the mistakes, its rule-based(applies the wrong rule or boundaries), knowledge-based(original problem lack of knowledge to handle), and memory-lapse again. I resonate with these two types of errors similarily to how design needs to be simple to best thrive. An example being a new board game, where there is a degree in understanding and learning the game. Any errors could likely be knowledge-based, where many players lack a full understanding or knowledge. This also ties in with the semantic elements of design. How much of the information is translated into the game or rules? These are the aspects of design(and game design) that should be constantly considered.
Overall I feel that this chapter really roped in my understandings from the last reading and I can recognize where it is applied with my Game Design and UI/UX classes. They all follow identical principles on simple design that communicates as much as possible in the most seamlessway.
