Ryan Rabuco
Personal Thoughts:

This reading highly encouraged me to reflect on what I believe what I am accountable for, compared to what technological "norms" are accountable when pushed by design. This mainly comes down to the two gulfs, The Gulf of Execution and The Gulf of Evaluation. Utilizing the seven stages of action was also key in breaking down that process. On page 39, the ways in which people process, interpret, and evaluate occurrences is essentially how The Gulf of Evaluation goes. In correlation, the Gulf of execution recognizes all the visual elements that made it all work together. Examples of these come from what people are typically capable of using, such as common household items like the sink or Fridgerator temperature control. A personal example of my own would be computers, given the simplified buttons aside from the very detailed processes inside the case. These two gulfs are bridged by the use of signifiers for execution(visual), good mappings, and a conceptual model. Gulf of evaluation comes through the use of feedback and a conceptual model as well.

A powerful design tool I learned from this reading on page 71 is the Seven Stages of Action, which are the seven fundamental design principles. In order, when an occurrence or action takes place, I take it as feedback via perceiving the world(subject), interpreting that perception, evaluating that interpretation, and then set goals, asking questions such as what I want to accomplish or to occur from it. Then those ideas would be feedforward as my intentions to act, the sequences of action, and my execution of it. This is related to all things with a design to it, which naturally means there is a function to it. These steps are how I perceive those designs and recognize what to do with it, depending on whether I am proficient in it's usage or not. These seven actions lead to the seven fundamental principles of design: Discoverability, feedback, conceptual model, affordance, signifiers, and mappings. A good example being a shower. I see perceive the bathroom's shower as for what it is, I evaluate what I can do with it. I interpret the necessity and what is good about it. From here my goal is set to clean and refresh myself. Then I set my intentions to act, the sequence of actions such as soap, shampoo and the such, and execute it. A simple process such as showering can be broken down thoroughly, highlighting how rooted design is in everyday things. 

All things considered, this reading reflecting the psychology of how we perceive everyday things was very useful in recognizing what makes good design, what minimum gap of knowledge is required to use it, and how can it function as a common action. I agree with the way it is broken down, and I do not feel confused in any part of it. This was a good read.
